CASE STUDY - ADATUM & LITWARE 

ADatum Corporation is a consulting company in Montreal.
ADatum recently acquired a Vancouver-based company named Litware, Inc.

Existing Environment. ADatum Environment
The on-premises network of ADatum contains an Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) forest named adatum.com.
ADatum has a Microsoft 365 E5 subscription. The subscription contains a verified domain that syncs with the adatum.com AD DS domain by using Azure AD Connect.
ADatum has an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named adatum.com. The tenant has Security defaults disabled.

The tenant contains the users shown in the following table.
Name    Role
User1   None
User2   None
User3   User administrator
User4   Privileged role administrator
User5   Identity Governance Administrator

The tenant contains the groups shown in the following table.
Name          Type      Membership   Owner   Members
IT_Group1     Security  Assigned     None    All users in the IT department
AdatumUsers   Security  Assigned     None    User1, User2


Existing Environment. Litware Environment
Litware has an AD DS forest named litware.com

Existing Environment. Problem Statements
ADatum identifies the following issues:
    • Multiple users in the sales department have up to five devices. The sales department users report that sometimes they must contact the support department to join their devices to the Azure AD tenant because they have reached their device limit.
    • A recent security incident reveals that several users leaked their credentials, a suspicious browser was used for a sign-in, and resources were accessed from an anonymous IP address.
    • When you attempt to assign the Device Administrators role to IT_Group1, the group does NOT appear in the selection list.
    • Anyone in the organization can invite guest users, including other guests and non-administrators.
    • The helpdesk spends too much time resetting user passwords.
    • Users currently use only passwords for authentication.


Requirements. Planned Changes -
ADatum plans to implement the following changes:
    • Configure self-service password reset (SSPR).
    • Configure multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all users.
    • Configure an access review for an access package named Package1.
    • Require admin approval for application access to organizational data.
    • Sync the AD DS users and groups of litware.com with the Azure AD tenant.
    • Ensure that only users that are assigned specific admin roles can invite guest users.
    • Increase the maximum number of devices that can be joined or registered to Azure AD to 10.


Requirements. Technical Requirements
ADatum identifies the following technical requirements:
    • Users assigned the User administrator role must be able to request permission to use the role when needed for up to one year.
    • Users must be prompted to register for MFA and provided with an option to bypass the registration for a grace period.
    • Users must provide one authentication method to reset their password by using SSPR. Available methods must include:
        - Email
        - Phone
        - Security questions
        - The Microsoft Authenticator app
    • Trust relationships must NOT be established between the adatum.com and litware.com AD DS domains.
    • The principle of least privilege must be used.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
QUESTIONS & ANSWERS

CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
Question: Sales users have reached their Microsoft Entra device limit. What should you configure to resolve the issue of the sales department users.?
Correct Answer: A. the Device settings
Why:
  → Device settings contains Maximum number of devices per user.
Exam tip: Fix Device limit → Device settings



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
Question: You cannot assign the Device Administrators role to IT_Group1. What should you do first?
Correct Answer: B. Recreate the IT_Group1 group.
Why:
  → A group must be created as role-assignable to receive Microsoft Entra roles.
  → An existing group cannot be converted into a role-assignable group.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware 
Question: How should you sync the Litware AD DS forest with the existing ADatum Microsoft Entra tenant?
Correct Answer: A. Azure AD Connect cloud sync between the Azure AD tenant and litware.com
Why:
  → adatum.com and litware.com are separate/disconnected forests.
  → IMPORTANT - The requirement explicitly says no trust relationship.
  → Cloud Sync is designed for multiple disconnected AD forests, including acquisition scenarios.
Exam tip:
  → Multiple AD forests + disconnected/no trust → Cloud Sync 



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to sync the ADatum users.
From the Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect wizard, select Customize synchronization options.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
What occurs when User3 (User administrator) attempts to use SSPR?
Number of auth methods required - 2 (User administrator specifically needs atleast 2 auth methods, others can have 1)
Authentication methods that can be used - Email, Phone & Microsoft Authenticator Only (Security question is there in allowed list in case study but this is prohibited for user administrator)



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
For MFA which feature should you use - An MFA registration policy
how long before the users must complete the registration (grace period) - 14 days



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
Leaked credentials - user risk policy
Sign in from suspicious browser - sign in risk policy
Resources accessed from an anonymous ip - sign in risk policy



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need implement the planned changes for application access to organizational data.
Answer- User consent settings (NOT acceess package)
Remember:
App wants permission to org data → User Consent.
User needs access to a resource → Access Package.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to implement the planned changes for Package1. Which users can create and manage the access review?
Answer: User5 Only (Identity Governance Administrator) 
Important: {Privileged role administrator  cannot help in access package, they can only help in access reviews}



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to resolve the issue of the guest user invitations. What should you do for the Azure AD tenant?
Answer - Modify the External collaboration settings.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to modify the settings of the User administrator role to meet the technical requirements.
Which two actions should you perform for the role? Each correct answer presents part of the solution.
Answer: - Modify the Expire eligible assignments after setting.
        - Set all assignments to Eligible.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to allocate licenses to the new users from ADatum. The solution must meet the technical requirements. Which type of object should you create?
Answer - a Dynamic User security group (because case study says assign licenses automatically)



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to sync the ADatum users. The solution must meet the technical requirements. What should you do?
Answer - From the Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect wizard, select Customize synchronization options.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to configure the assignment of Azure AD licenses to the Litware users. The solution must meet the licensing requirements.
What should you do:
    - Azure AD Connect Settings to modify - "Directory extensions"
    - Assign Azure AD Licenses to - "an azure active directory group that has DYNAMIC USER membership type"



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to meet the authentication requirements for leaked credentials. What should you do?
Answer: Enable password hash synchronization in Azure AD Connect.



CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to support the planned changes and meet the technical requirements for MFA.
Which feature should you use - "An MFA registration policy"
and how long before the users must complete the registration (Grace period) - "14 days"