Scenario cue: "5 groups (Security/M365, Assigned/Dynamic User/Dynamic Device) — which can get an Office 365 E5 license assigned directly?"
Correct Answer: E. Group1, Group2, Group4, and Group5 only
Why correct: Licenses can only be assigned to Security groups or Microsoft 365 groups with Assigned or Dynamic User membership. Dynamic Device groups can't hold licenses — a license must map to a user identity, not a device.
Exam tip: See "Dynamic Device" group in a licensing question → auto-eliminate it. Rule of thumb: "Licenses go on users, not devices."




Scenario cue: "AD-synced tenant, disabled on-prem user can still sign in to Azure AD for ~30 min — which solution fixes it?" (multi-solution series, this one = password writeback)
Why correct (No): Password writeback = a one-way channel for SSPR/password-reset changes flowing from cloud → on-prem. It doesn't touch account status (enabled/disabled) and doesn't affect the sync delay for accountDisabled attribute. The 30-min gap is caused by the default AD Connect sync cycle, not by anything password writeback governs.
Exam tip: For this whole question series, mentally sort solutions into two buckets:
✅ Fixes it → things that make auth check on-prem in real time (e.g., Pass-through Authentication) or force an immediate sync cycle.
❌ Doesn't fix it → password writeback, password protection, password hash sync, SSPR, Conditional Access policies sign-in frequency (these don't touch the disable-propagation delay).




Scoping filters determine which assigned users are provisioned. Multiple clauses within one filter = AND; multiple filters = OR.
Scenario cue: "Group1 is assigned + two Source Object Scope filters", so OR condition will take effect
Why correct:
User1 → Yes: Member of Group1 + department = IT AND jobTitle PRESENT → Filter1 matches.
User2 → No: Not a member of Group1 → never enters the provisioning scope.
User3 → Yes: Member of Group1 + city INCLUDES M → Filter2 matches.
Exam tip:
Inside one filter = AND | Between filters = OR.
Also remember: assignment/scope comes first — a user outside the assigned Group1 cannot be brought in merely because a filter matches.




Scenario cue: "5 types of device groups (Entra joined, Entra registered, single vs multi-session, Windows 365) — where can you install the GSA client?"
Why correct: GSA client requires Entra joined/hybrid joined (not registered) devices, and doesn't support multi-session virtual desktops (AVD/Windows 11 Enterprise multi-session). Windows 365 (Cloud PC, single-session) is explicitly supported.
Exam tip: Two auto-reject triggers for GSA client questions:
"Registered" → reject (join type must be Entra joined or hybrid joined).
"Multi-session" → reject (AVD multi-session / Windows 11 Enterprise multi-session not supported).
Windows 365 = ✅ supported (don't confuse with AVD multi-session).




Scenario cue: "Licensed Group1 contains 2 users + 2 nested groups"
Correct Answer: B. 2 Licenses
Why correct: Group-based licensing applies the license to direct user members of the licensed group. Nested groups aren't supported for group-based licensing, so User1 and User3 receive the license; users inside Group2 and Group4 don't.
Exam tip:
Licensed group → count direct users only.
Nested groups → don't count their users.




Scenario cue: "External contractor uses an existing @outlook.com identity and must access an enterprise application in your AD contoso.com"
Correct Answer: D. Create a guest user account in contoso.com
Why correct: Microsoft Entra B2B allows an external user to access your applications using their own existing credentials. The external user is represented as a guest user in your tenant, after which you can assign the guest access to App1.
Exam tip:
External person + use their own identity → B2B Guest user.
Don't create a normal member account just to give an external user access.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Similar question would come in which these options would Different
    Exam tip:
    → Question Pattern: External user + own identity = B2B Guest
    → "Create Guest user" available → choose it.
    → No Guest-user option + invitation cmdlet → choose the invitation cmdlet.
    → No invitation cmdlet then choose this cmdlet: New-MgInvitation




Scenario cue: "Prevent sync of users with extensionAttribute15 = NoSync — what do you configure in AD Connect?"
Correct Answer: C. Create an inbound synchronization rule for the Active Directory Domain Services connector.
Why correct: Attribute-based filtering is implemented as an inbound synchronization rule on the AD DS connector that sets the metaverse attribute cloudFiltered = True for matching objects, blocking them from being exported to Azure AD.
Exam tip: Memorize the flow direction:
    -Inbound rule + AD DS connector = filtering/transforming data coming from on-prem AD.
    -Windows Azure AD connector = deals with data going to Azure AD (not where you scope on-prem attributes).
    -Run profiles (Full Import/Export/Delta) are just sync operations, not filtering logic — always the wrong answer when the question is about which objects sync, not when they sync.




Scenario cue: "On-premises connectivity is lost + PHS enabled. Which users would be able to authenticate"
Why correct:
User1 → Yes: Cloud-only user; authentication doesn't depend on on-premises AD.
User2 → Yes: PHS is enabled, so the password hash is already in Microsoft Entra ID; cloud authentication doesn't require on-premises AD.
User3 → Yes: Guest user authenticates using their external/home identity, not the on-premises AD.
Exam tip:
    -PHS = cloud authentication → on-premises outage doesn't stop sign-in.
    -PTA = authentication depends on on-premises agents/AD.




Scenario cue: "Synchronize selected Group1; Group2 is nested inside Group1."
Correct Answer:
    User1 → Yes
    User2 → No
    Group2 → Yes
Why correct: Group-based filtering synchronizes direct members only. User1 is a direct member of Group1, so it syncs. Group2 is also a direct member of Group1, so Group2 itself syncs, but its member User2 does not because nested membership isn't resolved. Both OU1 and OU2 are included, so OU placement doesn't exclude these objects.
Exam tip:
    Group filtering = direct members only.
    Nested group → group itself can sync, but its members DON'T automatically sync.




Scenario cue: "Ensure External Identities pricing is based on Monthly Active Users (MAU)."
Correct Answer: C. a linked subscription
Why correct: Microsoft Entra External ID requires the tenant to be linked to an Azure subscription for billing. External ID uses the MAU billing model, and the MAUs are combined across tenants linked to the subscription.
Exam tip:
    External ID + billing/MAU → Linked Azure subscription.
    User flows, Terms of Use, and Access Reviews are not billing configuration.




Scenario cue: "Users with a company email domain are creating accounts through self-service sign-up. Which powershell commands to use to prevent this"
Correct Answer: A. Set-MsolCompanySettings
Why correct: Set-MsolCompanySettings was the MSOnline cmdlet used to control the tenant-wide AllowEmailVerifiedUsers setting, which controls whether users can create/join accounts through email-verified self-service sign-up.
Exam tip:
    Self-service / email-verified users → Set-MsolCompanySettings
    Don't confuse this with domain federation cmdlets (Set-MsolDomainFederationSettings, Update-MsolFederatedDomain).




You have a new Microsoft 365 tenant that uses a domain name of contoso.onmicrosoft.com.
You register the name contoso.com with a domain registrar.
You need to use contoso.com as the default domain name for new Microsoft 365 users.
Which four actions should you perform in sequence (from a given list)?
Answer:
    -Add a custom domain name of contoso.com
    -Create new TXT records in DNS 
    -Successfully verify the domain name
    -Set the domain to primary




Scenario cue: "Microsoft 365 sign-in page should appear in the user's browser language (Spanish)."
Correct Answer: C. Configure the Company branding settings.
Why correct: Microsoft Entra Company Branding lets you create a customized sign-in experience for a specific browser language. You can add Spanish as a browser-language customization under Entra ID → Custom Branding.
Exam tip:
    A (Usage location) — controls license eligibility/compliance by country, unrelated to sign-in page language.
    B (Global Secure Access / Session management) — governs network access and session lifetime controls, not UI localization.
    D (Conditional Access policy) — controls access grants/conditions (MFA, compliant device, etc.), not sign-in page appearance/language.




Scenario cue: "Different users have Entra roles, Purview/Defender role groups, and Intune roles. Which portal should you use to configure each user?"
Correct Answer:
    User1 → Azure Active Directory admin center
    User2 → Microsoft 365 compliance center
    User3 → Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center
Why correct: 
    User1's roles are Microsoft Entra directory roles. 
    User2's Records Management and Quarantine Administrator are Microsoft Purview/Defender role groups. 
    User3's roles are Intune RBAC roles.
Exam tip: 
    Entra roles → Azure AD admin center
    Records/Quarantine → Microsoft 365 compliance center
    Intune roles → Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center




Scenario cue: "Add another PTA agent while DCs must not access the internet."
Correct Answer: A. Server4 (Unassigned member server)
Why correct: PTA agents require outbound Internet access and access to AD domain controllers. Microsoft recommends installing additional agents on separate servers from the Microsoft Entra Connect server for high availability. 
Server4 is the appropriate member server; Server1/Server2 are domain controllers and must not communicate directly with the Internet, while Server3 already runs Microsoft Entra Connect.
Exam tip:
    PTA agent → separate member server + Internet access + AD access.
    Avoid DCs when the question says DCs cannot access the Internet.




Scenario cue: "Guest self-service sign-up for a webapp + one-time password + collect first name, last name, city, email."
Correct Answer:
  → One-time password: An identity provider
  → User details: A user flow
Why correct:
  → Email one-time passcode is configured as an identity provider for B2B guest authentication.
  → A user flow controls the self-service sign-up experience and lets you select the user attributes to collect, including Given Name, Surname, City, and email.
Exam tip:
  → OTP authentication → Identity Provider
  → Information collected during sign-up → User Flow
  → Remember: "How they authenticate" = Identity Provider | "What information they provide" = User Flow




Scenario cue: "Bulk create users by uploading the Microsoft Entra CSV template. Which properties needed?"
Correct Answer: C. accountEnabled, displayName, userPrincipalName, and passwordProfile
Why correct:
  → These are the required fields in the bulk-create template.
  → displayName identifies the user.
  → userPrincipalName provides the sign-in name.
  → passwordProfile provides the initial password.
  → accountEnabled determines whether the account can sign in.
Exam tip:
  → Bulk-create users = DisplayName + UPN + PasswordProfile + AccountEnabled
  → UsageLocation is optional, so eliminate D.
  → givenName and surname are optional, so eliminate B.




Scenario cue: "On-premises AD + Windows 11 + hybrid join + Intune enrollment."
Correct Answer (2 dropdown selection):
  → Domain: Intune Connector for Active Directory
  → Intune: Modify the mobile device management (MDM) user scope
Why correct:
  → Intune Connector for Active Directory → supports the on-premises AD domain-join part of the hybrid deployment.
  → MDM user scope → enables automatic Intune enrollment.
Exam tip:
  → Hybrid/Autopilot domain join → Intune Connector for Active Directory
  → Automatic Intune enrollment → MDM user scope




Selections to make: 3
Scenario cue: "Security incidents involving leaked credentials, suspicious browser, and anonymous IP."
Correct Answer:
  → Leaked credentials: A user risk policy
  → A sign-in from a suspicious browser: A sign-in risk policy
  → Resources accessed from an anonymous IP address: A sign-in risk policy
Exam tip:
  → User/account compromised → User risk
  → Suspicious sign-in → Sign-in risk
  → Leaked credentials = User risk
  → Anonymous IP / Suspicious browser = Sign-in risk




Question: Which users will be emailed a passcode, settings given as screenshort where email OTP enable for guest users?
Topic: Microsoft Entra guest invitation — Email one-time passcode
Correct Answer: B. User1 only
Why:
  → User1 = Guest user → receives email OTP.
  → User2/User3 do not meet the guest + OTP condition shown in the exhibit as user3 is internal user and user2 is not a guest user in this domain




Selections to make: 2
Question: For which users can you configure the Job title and Usage location properties in Azure AD, user1:synced, user2 and user3: not synced?
Topic: Microsoft Entra user properties — synced vs not synced
Correct Answer:
  → Job title property: User2 and User3 only
  → Usage location property: User1, User2, and User3
Why correct:
  → User1 is directory-synced → Job title cannot be changed now in Azure.
  → Usage location is a Microsoft Entra attribute → can be updated even for synced users on azure.
Exam tip:
  → Synced user → job info comes from AD
  → Usage location → can be configured in Entra ID




Question: How can User1 create new catalogs and add resources to the catalogs they own?
Correct Answer: From the Identity Governance blade, modify the Entitlement management settings.
Why:
  → Entitlement management settings lets you delegate the Catalog creator role.
  → A Catalog creator can create catalogs and becomes the owner of catalogs they create.



To configure Windows 10 computers for Azure AD Seamless Single Sign-On (Seamless SSO), you need to ensure that users' credentials are automatically passed from their Windows session to Azure AD when accessing cloud resources. 
This is achieved by configuring the Local intranet zone settings in Internet Explorer or Edge.
Azure AD Seamless SSO works by authenticating users seamlessly without prompting for credentials when they access resources in Azure AD. However, for it to work, the Azure AD URLs (like https://autologon.microsoftazuread-sso.com) must be trusted by the browsers on the Windows 10 machines. This is achieved by adding the URLs to the Local intranet zone.
Option A (Configuring Sign-in options) and Option B (Enabling Enterprise State Roaming) are not related to enabling Seamless SSO.
Option D (Installing the Azure AD Connect Authentication Agent) is also incorrect, as the Authentication Agent is used for Pass-through Authentication (PTA) rather than Seamless SSO.
Therefore, Option C is the correct choice to ensure Azure AD Seamless SSO works on Windows 10 computers.




Topic: Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration — cross-tenant access
Architecture:
  → Contoso West AD forest → Azure AD Connect → Contoso West Microsoft 365 tenant
  → Contoso East AD forest → Azure AD Connect → Contoso East Microsoft 365 tenant
Correct Answer: B. Invite the Contoso East users as guests in the Contoso West tenant.
Why correct:
  → East users can be represented as guest users in the West tenant using Microsoft Entra B2B.
  → B2B guests can access SharePoint resources in the West tenant using their own East credentials.
  → No need to synchronize the East AD into the West tenant.
  → Options C/D unnecessarily involve Entra Connect and don't fit the simplest supported solution.




Question: Which roles allow User1 to create group access reviews and User2 to review completed access-review history?
Topic: Microsoft Entra Access Reviews — least-privilege roles
Correct Answer:
  → User1: User administrator
  → User2: Security reader
Why correct:
  → User administrator → can create/manage access reviews for groups.
  → Security reader → can read access-review results/history with least privilege.




Microsoft.app permission for creating and deleting instances of container apps (dont choose Microsoft.compute)
Microsoft.security permission for enforcing adaptive network hardening rules. (dont choose Microsoft.network)



You need to ensure that the support team can reset passwords and manage multi-factor authentication (MFA) settings for only the executives (100 executives out of total 5000 users).
Object type - an administrative unit
Role - authentication administrator



You have an administrative unit named Au1. Group1, User2, and User3 are members of Au1.
User5 is assigned the User administrator role for Au1.
For which users can User5 reset passwords?
User2 & User3 ONLY as they are direct part of AU1 and we cant touch the settings for members inside the group




User    Usage location    Department    Job title
---------------------------------------------------
User1   United States     Sales         Associate
User2   Finland           Sales         SalesRep
User3   Australia         Sales         Manager
EQUATION: user.usageLocation -in ["US","AU"] -and (user.department -eq "Sales") -and -not (user.jobTitle -eq "Manager") –or (user. jobTitle -eq "SalesRep")
Which users will be added to the group?
Answer - User1 and User2 only
Tip:
We can think with this logic
(
  UsageLocation = US/AU
  AND Department = Sales
  AND JobTitle ≠ Manager
)
OR
(
  JobTitle = SalesRep
)




The User Administrator role allows users to do the both:
    Reset passwords for non-administrators.
    Manage licenses (assign and remove licenses).
Helpdesk Administrator: This role only allows resetting user passwords but not managing licenses.
Billing Administrator: This role deals with subscription and billing management, not user licenses or password resets.
License Administrator: This role allows managing license assignments but does not permit resetting passwords.




Question: How can you remove the individually assigned E3 licenses from 2,500 users with the least administrative effort?
Correct Answer: C. the Licenses blade in the Azure Active Directory admin center
Why correct:
  → E3 licenses are directly assigned to individual users.
  → E5 is already assigned through a group.
  → The Licenses blade can be used to remove the direct E3 assignments in bulk.
Exam tip:
  → Direct user licenses → Licenses blade
  → Group-based licenses → manage from the group
  IMPORTANT - if license blade option is not there then this option is correct - Set-MsolUserLicense cmdlet OR Set-MgUserLicense cmdlet




We have 30 days to restore a deleted user account from Entra ID tenant. 
The least privilege role to be used to restore is "User Administrator"




User sign-ins to Azure AD must be authenticated by an Active Directory domain controller. -- Passthrough authentication
Active Directory domain users must be able to use Azure AD self-service password reset (SSPR). -- Password writeback
NOTE: SSPR need password writeback to be enabled




You have a Microsoft 365 E5 subscription.
You create a user named User1.
You need to ensure that User1 can update the status of Identity Secure Score improvement actions.
Solution: You assign the Exchange Administrator role to User1. - YES 
Solution: You assign the SharePoint Administrator role to User1. - YES
Solution: You assign the User Administrator role to User1. - NO 
Solution: You assign the Security Operator role to User1. - NO (this only has read-only access to Identity Secure Score improvement actions.)




CASE STUDY - Contoso and Fabrikam
Selections to make: 2
Question: What should you create first, and which tool should you use to allow helpdesk administrators to manage licenses only for their respective offices?
Correct Answer:
  → Object to create for each branch office: An administrative unit
  → Tool to use: Azure Active Directory admin center
Why:
  → Administrative Units (Not OU, as OU is for onprem) let you scope administrator permissions to specific users, such as users in each office.
  → License management is supported with administrative-unit-scoped roles.




CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
Question: Sales users have reached their Microsoft Entra device limit. What should you configure to resolve the issue of the sales department users.?
Correct Answer: A. the Device settings
Why:
  → Device settings contains Maximum number of devices per user.
Exam tip: Fix Device limit → Device settings




CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
Question: You cannot assign the Device Administrators role to IT_Group1. What should you do first?
Correct Answer: B. Recreate the IT_Group1 group.
Why:
  → A group must be created as role-assignable to receive Microsoft Entra roles.
  → An existing group cannot be converted into a role-assignable group.




Question: Can each user accept/access the shared resources after the collaboration restriction is configured?
QUESTION DATA (missing data)
User email             User type    Invitation accepted
User1@outlook.com      Guest        No
User2@fabrikam.com     Guest        Yes
Settings Configured:
  → Allow invitations only to the specified domains → outlook.com

Correct Answer:
  → User1 → Yes
  → User2 → Yes
  → User3 → No
Why:
  → Allowed domain → invitation allowed.
  → Already accepted guest → can continue accessing.
  → Non-allowed domain → new invitation blocked.




CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware 
Question: How should you sync the Litware AD DS forest with the existing ADatum Microsoft Entra tenant?
Correct Answer: A. Azure AD Connect cloud sync between the Azure AD tenant and litware.com
Why:
  → adatum.com and litware.com are separate/disconnected forests.
  → IMPORTANT - The requirement explicitly says no trust relationship.
  → Cloud Sync is designed for multiple disconnected AD forests, including acquisition scenarios.
Exam tip:
  → Multiple AD forests + disconnected/no trust → Cloud Sync 




Question: To which identities can you assign the Contributor role for Resource Group?
Correct Answer: E. User1, Group1, VM1, and App1
Why:
  → Azure RBAC roles can be assigned to users, groups, managed identities, and service principals.
  → Group1 = security group → ✅
  → VM1 = system-assigned managed identity → ✅
  → App1 = enterprise application/service principal → ✅
  → User1 = user → ✅




Selections to make: 3
Question: Which three External collaboration settings ensure guests cannot query staff email addresses and only User1 can invite guests?
Correct Answer:
  → Guest user access restrictions: Guest user access is restricted to properties and memberships of their own directory objects (most restrictive)
  → Guest invite restrictions: Only users assigned to specific admin roles can invite guest users
  → Enable guest self-service sign up via user flows: NO
Why:
  → Most restrictive guest access prevents guests from viewing other users' profiles/email information.
  → User administrator is one of the roles allowed to invite guests under the specific-admin-roles option, so User1 can invite them.
  → Self-service sign-up must be No, otherwise users could sign up without being specifically invited by User1.




Question: Which role should Admin1 have to manage Microsoft 365 service requests, configure service health, and manage Azure support tickets with least administrative effort?
Correct Answer: C. Assign Admin1 the Helpdesk Administrator role.
Why:
  → Helpdesk Administrator provides the required service request and service health permissions.
  → It is a built-in role, so no custom role is needed.



Your network contains an on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) domain that syncs with an Azure AD tenant.
You need to ensure that user authentication always occurs by validating passwords against the AD DS domain.
What should you configure, and what should you use? To answer, select the appropriate options in the answer area.
Configure: Pass-through authentication
Use: Azure AD Connect




QUESTION DATA
User email             User type    Description
User1@contoso.com      Guest        A guest user in fabrikam.com
User2@outlook.com      Guest        A user who has never accessed resources in fabrikam.com
User3@fabrikam.com     Guest        A user in fabrikam.com
Setting:
  → Email One-Time Passcode for guests is enabled for any domain.
Question: Which users will be emailed a passcode?
Correct Answer: A. User2 only
Why:
  → User2 is an external guest who has never accessed resources in fabrikam.com → email OTP is used.
  → User1 is already an existing guest -> no OTP.
  → User3 is a fabrikam.com user → no guest OTP.




Question: Which two parameters are required when creating a bulk B2B collaboration invitation?
Correct Answers: A. email address and B. redirection URL
Why:
  → Email address identifies the external user to invite.
  → Redirection URL specifies where the invited user is sent after accepting the invitation. Microsoft explicitly lists both as required values in the bulk-invite CSV template.




Question: For each statement, determine whether it is true based on the Azure AD Connect filtering and configuration.
Correct Answer:
  → User1 can use SSPR to reset his password: Yes
  → User1 accessing Exchange Online is authenticated by an on-premises DC: Yes
  → User2 can be added to a SharePoint Online site as a member: No
Why:
  → User1 is in OU1, which is synced, and password writeback is enabled → SSPR can write the password back to AD DS. Microsoft confirms password writeback supports PTA environments.
  → PTA is enabled → User1's password is validated by the on-premises AD domain controller.
  → User2 is in OU2, which is not selected for synchronization → User2 isn't synchronized to Entra ID, so can't be added as a normal Entra user to SharePoint Online.




Question: Which portal should you use to compare the role permissions of Admin1, Admin2, and Admin3 with minimum administrative effort?
Correct Answer: B. the Microsoft 365 admin center
Why:
  → Microsoft 365 admin center has Compare roles, allowing you to select up to three roles and compare their permissions directly

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: Which PowerShell cmdlet should you run to prevent users from creating user accounts in the contoso.com tenant through self-service sign-up?
Correct Answer: A. Update-MgOrganization
Why:
  → Update-MgOrganization is used for the organization-level setting that controls whether email-verified users can join the tenant.
  → The other options manage permission grant policies, domain properties, or domain federation.
  -> SAME QUESTION - correct answer = Update-MgPolicyAuthorizationPolicy




Question: You have an Azure AD tenant and need to configure the following External Identities features:
• B2B collaboration
• Monthly active users (MAU)-based pricing
Which two settings should you configure? To answer, select the settings in the answer area.
Answer: - External collaboration Settings
        - Linked subscriptions




Question: You update the email address of the user. (Account status is Enabled and B2B collaboration: invitation accepted)
You need to ensure that the user can authenticate by using the updated email address.
What should you do for the user?
Answer: Reset the redemption status.




Question: You have an Azure AD tenant.
You need to ensure that only users from specific external domains can be invited as guests to the tenant.
Which settings should you configure?
Answer: External collaboration settings




Question: How can User1 be notified every three months to validate the guest membership of Group1?
A - Configure the External collaboration settings.
B - Create an access review.
C - Configure an access package.
D - Create a group expiration policy.
Correct Answer: B. Create an access review.
Why:
  → Access reviews let group owners periodically review and validate guest memberships.
  → Set the review recurrence to every 3 months and User1 as the reviewer.




Question: What can Admin1/Admin3 do?
Scenario:
  → Department1 AU contains User1, User2, Group1, Group2.
  → Admin1 = User Administrator scoped to Department1 AU.
  → Admin3 = User Administrator scoped to entire directory.
  → Group2 contains User3 and User4.
Correct Answer:
  → Admin1 can reset password of User3/User4: NO
  → Admin1 can add User1 to Group3: NO
  → Admin3 can reset password of User1: YES
Why:
  → Group2 being in Department1 does not put User3/User4 in the AU. AU scope applies to the group itself, not its members.
  → Group3 is outside Admin1's AU scope → cannot manage it.
  → Admin3 has directory-wide User Administrator scope → can reset User1's password.




Question: For each statement, select Yes or No.
Scenario:
  → fabrikam.com AD DS is federated with Microsoft Entra through AD FS.
  → Password Hash Synchronization and Password Writeback are enabled.
  → User2 is disabled only in Microsoft Entra.
  → User3 is enabled only in Microsoft Entra, while the on-premises account remains disabled.
Correct Answer:
  → You can add User1 to Group1: Yes
  → User2 can sign in to Server1: Yes
  → User3 can sign in to Microsoft 365: No
Why:
  → User1 → Yes: Cloud-created Group1 can contain the synced User1.
  → User2 → Yes: Disabling the Entra user doesn't disable the on-premises AD account, so it doesn't prevent User2 from signing into the on-premises Server1.
  → User3 → No: Microsoft 365 authentication is federated to AD FS. AD FS authenticates against on-premises AD, and Microsoft specifically documents disabled AD accounts as authentication failures.




Question: Which objects can you add as members to Group3?
Scenario:
User1  → User
User2  → User
Group1 → Security group
Group2 → Microsoft 365 group
Group3 → Mail-enabled security group
Correct Answer: D. User1 and User2 only
Why:
  → A mail-enabled security group can have users as members (licenses doesnot matter).
  → Security groups cannot be added as members of mail-enabled security groups.
  → Microsoft 365 groups cannot be nested into a mail-enabled security group either.




Scenario:
Device limit = 5 per user
User1:
→ Device1 = Windows 10, Entra joined
→ Device2 = iOS, Entra registered
→ Device3 = Windows 10, Entra registered
→ Device4 = Android, Entra registered
Admin1 = Cloud Device Administrator
Admin2 = Microsoft Entra Joined Device Local Administrator
Question: For each statement, select Yes or No.
Correct Answer:
  → User1 can join four additional Windows 10 devices: No
  → Admin1 can set "Devices ... require Multi-Factor Authentication" to Yes: Yes
  → Admin2 is a local administrator on Device3: No
Why:
  → User1 already has 4 devices and the maximum is 5 → only 1 more can be added. The limit applies to joined and registered devices.
  → Cloud Device Administrator can modify device settings.
  → Microsoft Entra Joined Device Local Administrator applies to Microsoft Entra joined devices; Device3 is registered, not joined.




Question: Which role should User1 have to purchase a Microsoft Entra Permissions Management license for Sub1 using least privilege?
Correct Answer: B. Billing Administrator




Question: What is the minimum number of RBAC role assignments required for User1 to view all resources (both RG), restart VMs (both RG), and create VMs/storage accounts only in RG1?
Correct Answer: C. 3
Why:
  Reader View all resources
  Virtual Machine Contributor Restart VMs across both resource groups
  Contributor Create VMs and storage accounts in RG1




Question: You can invite guests from fabrikam.com to contoso.com but not adatum.com. What should you configure to allow adatum.com guests?
A. Guest invite settings
B. Verifiable credentials
C. Named locations
D. Collaboration restrictions
Correct Answer: D. Collaboration restrictions
Why:
  → Collaboration restrictions control which domains can receive B2B invitations.
Exam tip: Specific guest domain blocked → Collaboration restrictions




Question: Which resources can use Managed1 as their identity?
Scenario:
Managed1 → User-assigned managed identity → East US
VM1      → Virtual machine       → West US
storage1 → Storage account       → East US
WebApp1  → Azure App Service app → East US
Correct Answer: D. VM1, storage1, and WebApp1
Why:
  → All three resource types support user-assigned managed identities.
  → The managed identity does not have to be in the same Azure region as the resource, so VM1 in West US is also valid.




Question: After creating User3, updating User1/User2, and running synchronization, what sync status does each user receive?
Scenario:
BEFORE
User1 → user1@contoso.com + sales@contoso.com
User2 → user2@contoso.com + user.2@contoso.com + service@contoso.com

STEP 1 — Create User3
User3 → user3@contoso.com + sales@contoso.com (AD allows duplicate before sync)

STEP 2 — Update User1
User1 → admin@contoso.com (sales@contoso.com removed)

STEP 3 — Update User2
User2 → sales@contoso.com

FINAL STATE BEFORE SYNC
User1 → admin@contoso.com                     (unique)
User2 → sales@contoso.com                     (duplicate)
User3 → user3@contoso.com + sales@contoso.com (duplicate)

STEP 4 — Manual sync
User1 → Synced
User2 → Error
User3 → Error




Question: Which identity should you assign to VM1 to enable Microsoft Entra login and allow VM1 to access resources in Sub1?
Correct Answer: D. system-assigned managed identity
Exam tip:
  → System-assigned managed identity → identity tied to one Azure resource; lifecycle follows the resource.
  → User-assigned managed identity → standalone identity that can be shared across multiple Azure resources.




Which four actions should you perform in sequence to gain global administrator privileges to the Azure Active Directory
Correct sequence:
1. Create a self-signed user account in the Azure AD tenant.
2. Sign in to the Microsoft 365 admin center.
3. Respond to the Become the admin message.
4. Create a TXT record in the contoso.com DNS zone.




Question: For which scopes can each user be assigned their respective role?
Scenario:
Tenant → contoso.com
AU1 → User1 is a member
User1 → Security Administrator
User2 → User Administrator
Correct Answer:
User1 → contoso.com only
User2 → AU1 and contoso.com
Why:
  → Security Administrator → can be assigned at directory scope, not Administrative Unit scope.
  → User Administrator → supports Administrative Unit scope as well as the entire directory.
  - User2 does not need to be a member of AU1 to be assigned a role with AU1 as the scope.



Question: What authentication solution should be recommended for VMs hosting App1 to securely authenticate to external apis and access azure resources?
Scenario:
App1 → runs on multiple VMs
- Needs third-party API secrets
- Secrets must be securely stored
- No credentials in code
- VMs need Microsoft Entra authentication to Azure resources
- Minimum admin effort
Correct Answer: B. user-assigned managed identities and Azure Key Vault




Question: You have an Azure subscription that contains an Azure Automation account named Automation1.
You need to grant Automation1 access to Azure resources. The solution must meet the following requirements:
• Ensure that any permissions granted to Automation1 are removed when the account is deleted.
• Minimize administrative effort.
What should you use?
Answer - system-assigned managed identity (bcz the lifecycle stays with object)




Scenario:
Existing user : User1
--Existing groups:
Group1 → Security | Assigned
Group2 → Security | Dynamic User
Group3 → Security | Dynamic Device
Group4 → Microsoft 365 | Assigned
--New groups:
GroupA → Security | Assigned
GroupB → Microsoft 365 | Assigned
--Question: Which members can you add to GroupA and GroupB?
--Correct Answer:
GroupA → User1, Group1, Group2, and Group3 only (Security group → Users + Security groups + Devices)
GroupB → User1 only (Microsoft 365 group → Users only)




Scenario:
Contoso tenant
User1 → Member
User2 → Member
User3 → Guest
--
Group1 → User1
Group2 → Group1 + User2
--
Cross-tenant synchronization enabled for:
→ User3
→ Group2

Question: Which users will sync from contoso.com to fabrikam.com?
Correct Answer:
User1 → No (nested group users cant be synced)
User2 → Yes
User3 → No (guest cant be synced)




Concept:
Security attributes can only be assigned to users and service principals
Only users who have role of "Attribute Definition Administrator" can create custom security attributes (not even global administrator & security administrator can do this)




Concept:
Cross tenant syncronization
- Users (supported)  
- Security groups (supported)
- Microsoft 365 groups (Not supported)




Scenario:
- Resources:
Site1  → SharePoint Online site
Team1  → Microsoft Teams team
- Requestor groups:
Group3 → Site1 only
Group1 → Site1 + Team1
Group4 → Site1 + Team1
- Approvers:
Group1 requests → Group2 approves
Group3 requests → Group5 approves
Group4 requests → Group5 approves
- Question: What is the minimum number of access packages required?
- Correct Answer: A. 2
Why:
#Access Package 1
    → Site1
    → Requestor: Group3
    → Approver: Group5
#Access Package 2
    → Site1 + Team1
    → Policy 1: Group1 → Approver Group2
    → Policy 2: Group4 → Approver Group5
Exam tip:
→ Access package = resources
→ Policy = who can request + approval rules
→ Same resources but different approval rules → use separate policies, not separate packages.




Concept:
Group type: security, mail-enabled security, distribution --> do not support expiration
Group type: Microsoft 365 --> supports expiration of 30 days




Question:
What should you do to implement on-premises application and SharePoint Online restrictions to meet the authentication requirements and the access requirements.
Correct Answer:
For on-premises applications:
→ Publish the applications by using Microsoft Entra Application Proxy.
For SharePoint Online:
→ Configure app-enforced restrictions.





Concept:
If Application Proxy already installed on MEMBER SERVER, then DON'T install Password Protection Proxy Service there.
Microsoft Entra Connect MEMBER SERVER → Can host Password Protection Proxy Service.
Domain Controller servers cannot host password protection policy service
Password list to be stored in Entra ID, NOT in onprem server




Concept:
You create a Log Analytics workspace - configure diagnostic settings




CASE STUDY - Contoso and Fabrikam
Access package → Bundles resources (apps, groups, SharePoint sites, Teams) and controls who can request/access them.
Connected organization → Defines an external organization whose users can be allowed to request/access your resources through entitlement management.




CASE STUDY - Contoso and Fabrikam
Role settings → Configure User Administrator to require justification and approval when activating the role through PIM.




CASE STUDY - Contoso and Fabrikam
You need to modify the settings of the User administrator role to meet the technical requirements. Select 2 actions
→ Justification required → Require justification on activation
→ Set all assignments to Eligible → required because the requirement is to activate the role. An Active assignment doesn't go through activation; an Eligible assignment does.




CASE STUDY - Contoso and Fabrikam
Modify the External collaboration settings -> to resolve the issue of the guest user invitations.




CASE STUDY - ADatum & Litware
You need to sync the ADatum users.
From the Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect wizard, select Customize synchronization options.




Q- You need to configure the detection of multi-staged attacks to meet the monitoring requirements. (maybe case study)
A- Customize the Microsoft Sentinel rule logic.

Q- You need to track application access assignments by using Identity Governance. The solution must meet the delegation requirements. (maybe case study)
A- Create a program




Concept
"Global Administrator" and "Global Secure Access Administrator" can manage Microsoft Entra Internet Access.



Concept:
To create access reviews for Microsoft Entra roles, you must be assigned AT LEAST the Privileged Role Administrator role.




Scenario:
- Users:
Admin1 → Global Administrator
Admin2 → Conditional Access Administrator
Admin3 → Authentication Policy Administrator
Admin4 → Global Administrator
- Admin4 creates Policy1 using the "Require multifactor authentication for Azure management" template.
- Question: Which users will be required to use MFA the next time they sign in?
- Correct Answer: C. Admin1, Admin2, and Admin3 only
Why : Conditional Access templates targeting users automatically exclude only the user who creates the policy.


Concept
Exam tip:
→ Requestor = must be allowed by the request policy.
→ Approver cannot approve their own request, even if they are also an eligible requestor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------